---
layout: post
title: "Week 4 - Add-on project"
---

##### Learning about add-ons

Creating my own add-on definitely felt like something that was out of my reach - it was a classic example of something that I decided was too hard for me even though I never tried it. 
<!--more-->
The classroom activity was incredibly helpful. We used Mozilla's guide to installing and running a temporary add-on on your own machine - even though they give you the exact code and the step-by-step instructions on how to run it - and it was a good learning experience to get us started with add-ons!


##### Our own add-on

We were a group of 2 people and with only a week to work on the project we decided to keep it simple in terms of the functionality of the add-on. 

My teammate, Jacob Baum, and I decided to create a pop-up where you can choose between 4 colors and "themify" your webpage - the add-on creates a 5 pixel border and a lighter version of the same color in the background. The user can also reset (remove all colors) the webpage. 


##### My contributions to the project

We tried to most of the work together when we met up for the project. Because the actual code for our add-on idea wasn't very complicated (combination of the first and second extension for Mozilla), we decided to complete it in 2 sittings. For the first meeting, both of us worked on creating the repository and adding all the elements that would make this an open source project - adding readme, contributing, code of conduct files. 

For the second meeting we both were working on our local copies of the same repo to try and get the code to do what we wanted it to. As we had gotten the basic parts of the code working, it was just about doing some trial & error to try and get it to work. This was where we left the meeting, however, we later realized that the code was completely fine but it wasn't showing the results on the webpage we were testing it on (youtube) because of its internal settings. 

I think this was the first time (granted it was a very short project) that I completed a project that was truly a group effort. Both of us participated on all parts of the project and it was a very rewarding experience. From a technical point of view, it was a good learning experience for me - as I didn't have to be fully knowledgable in the language that the code was written in to participate and contribute to the project. Not knowing Javascript was not very initimidating for this and I think I need to take this learning onto the bigger project for the class and for small individual contributions to be made during the semester. 


##### Other groups' add-ons

The presentations for the rest of the groups were all very interesting and a lot of them were a lot more creative than our group was. The one that really stood out for me was YoutubeEX. Even though their code was very elementary, I think it was the only group in the class that was solving an actual problem - social media's intention to distract users to serve their own business needs. 



