---
layout: post
title: "Week 6 - Tidepool and how you can do good with open source"
---

##### Who is Cristopher Snider?

[He](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopherasnider/) is the Community and Clinic Success Manager for [Tidepool](https://www.tidepool.org/open), which is an open source not-for-profit organization to make the data from diabetes devices more accessible and useful for patients, researchers and clinicians. 
<!--more-->



I was particularly excited about his talk during the class because I saw that he was playing an important non-technical role in a primarily technology oriented organization. This is also where I see myself in the real world. I don't believe my strengths lie in actually understanding a complex code base and making technical contributions to it. However, I do find myself useful in bridging the gap between running business with a bunch of technically talented people. Therefore, I was really looking forward to his talk. 

##### What is he dealing with?

In the beginning, he really helped us get intimate with the problem Tidepool is trying to solve and the people it is trying to affect. I knew that Diabetics really had to be proactive about the stuff they were eating, but I had no idea that they had to think twice about even something as simple as walking their dog. This also highlighted why real-time data is actually a life-changing solution for people living with diabetes. 

I think this also helped me understand why Tidepool is an open source project and why it is run as a non-profit. Ethically, it seems really hard to charge people, who may not have the means, for something that they really should have to be able to lead some sort of a normal life without having to worry all the time.

##### Yes, this is a good thing but how do we keep the lights on?

At the end of the day, everything has a price tag. How do you make sure that you hire and retain the best talent for your company, how do you shoulder the operational costs of the business, etc. My questions for Mr. Snider were directed towards this topic. He was immediately able to help me see why being structured as a non-profit would be helpful in certain regards:
* There are no shareholders to answer to
* You are really able to respond to the needs of your community
* Eligibility for federal funds and research grants
* Being able to offer the basic service for free

But at the same time, it does limit the kind of growth they can achieve. Because they cannot raise a significant amount of cash to scale up quickly, they will need to pursue gradual growth. Even though they have the demand from their clients about the next thing they want built into their solution, or they have an idea about the kind of features they want to try for the premium version of their software, they cannot really execute quickly on those ideas. It also limits the kind of money that the team members can make from this company as you cannot have a multi-million dollar exit from a non-profit (no shares to sell).


It was so inspiring to talk to him, not only because of the kind of work Tidepool was doing and the kind of impact they were having on the diabetic community, but also because of the role he was playing for the company. It is easy to disregard the person who is not doing the actual coding in an open source project as not integral to the organization, but I really learned today that you don't need to have a coding role on a technical team to make a difference. 


##### Speaking of making a difference

For the end of the week, we spent class time discussing doing good with open source across the world in difference industries. I personally was interested in the first 2 that we spoke about:
* Agriculture: 
  * The videos that we saw talked about using software to automate taking care of plants (possibly remotely) and how you can use the open source software for personal greenhouses at home or at a larger scale, both of which are completely different use cases. 
  * Even though this an amazing initiative, you have to be mindful of its scope and ability to do good - as actually implementing this software requires semi-expensive software; how effective is it in getting the younger generation excited about farming; how practical is it at a higher scale in developing/third-world nations, etc.
  * I have done some digging into vertical farming yielding amazing results with automation and that was very encouraging to hear. 
  
* Democratizing Education:
  * I was the most excited about this topic because I have personally gone through the problem of not being able to pay for textbooks and even after paying for them I haven't used them because I don't find them useful at all! 
  * It was actually very surprising for me to learn that the authors of the book don't actually make money from the books that they write. So, that really answered a couple of ethical questions about making books available for free to students and even altering them to fit different learning styles. 
  * I still believe that there are many more fundamental problems with access to education to solve before this becomes more effective in developing/third world nations, but I think it is an amazing start and will also lead the community to discover and discuss more problems and, hopefully, solve them!







