---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Why Open Source Programming?
---


##### What is Open Source (in my opinon)?

I believe that open source programming is for projects that are started, maintained and improved by "the people." Anyone and everyone is invited to contribute towards these projects, within some basic set of rules - mainly concerning the use of the codebase. 


##### What are some advantages?

The fact that the codebase is open to everyone creates a lot of opportunities. First, people who are not necessarily a part of an organization or are getting paid to work togehter now have a place to come together to create something. This pushes the boundaries of innovation in technology that wouldn't have otherwise existed. 
Second, the code is looked at by people from across the world with various cultural and educational backgrounds. This results in the project to be representative of the entire CS community. It also means that the project has been looked at from many different angles and probably has fewer errors or missing pieces. 
Third, it gives the opportunity to people who are learning how to code and contribute to projects to ask questions of the community and contrinute in a meaningful way, without having a ton of experience. As we ourselves are learning this in college, I can see how these projects can make us more comfortable around lengthy and complicated codebases. 


##### What are some potential issues?

Every coin has 2 sides. While I believe that open source programming is generally good for this world, there are some undeniable problems with the concept as well. First, it is an open community that is basicually self-regulated - there is no HR or senior leadership. This means that this community is self-governed and is not necessarily welcoming to people from different parts of the world or to students/beginniers trying to learn. 
Second, while we create projects with the intention of doing good, there is no denying that some people might use the same project to potentially create tools that could harm people - missile targetting systems, tracking people's information without them knowing it, etc.


##### Some open source projects that have influenced me

* Wikipedia: The availability of correct information is very important social initiative for me. Wikipedia was the first website that was introduced to me, as a kid, to try and find some information about a topic or a person. While I don't regularly use this anymore, it is an important project to me.
* VS Code: One of the first IDEs that I used in my computer science career (same for many of my peers) is open source! It is a software that I use regularly and intent to continue doing so! It has subtle features that help you with debugging and merging with your repositories that are *EXTREMELY* HELPFUL. 
* Mozilla Firefox: Another nostalgic open source project. This was the first web browser I started using after internet explorer, before google! I still remember the significant upgrade I felt when I started using it. It gives me a good andriod-feel on a macOS. 
* Java: Even though a lot of people don't like this language, it is still my favorite one! This was the language I did most of my intro classes in and I've taught a lot of younger students in this language as well! I like the fact that it is a strictly typed language because it helps me be more specific and makes debugging longer, but easier. 


