---
layout: post
title: "Week 10 - In Conversation with Sean Lip"
---

##### What can I do?
I talked about how it was impossible to download and run the oppia program on my very old and rusty laptop on my last blog, and it initially sent me and my group in the search of other projects that I could run! However, all of us felt pretty strongly about Oppia's mission and how active/helpful their community was. Plus, we also realized that my laptop will still ber very old and rusty for another project! So, we decided to stick with Oppia and started to figure out how we can work on it. 
<!--more-->


We decided that we can still split up the development work and just run tests on the laptop that is new and can run Oppia. Additionally, I was able to get in touch with one of the main contributors of the project and set up a conversation with him. 


##### Sean Lip
[Sean Lip](https://github.com/seanlip) took the time to speak to me this past Wednesday and it was a great experience! We spoke at length about my background and past experiences that make me relevant to contribute to the project and how I can contribute. We finally came to a conclusion that because of my experience in teaching, tutoring and entrepreneurship, a role in Math lesson planning and evaluation would be the best fit! 

I will be attending the Math lesson team's weekly meeting starting April 19th, which is VERY exciting. I am yet to be assigned a proper role and work that I can start working on, but once I am back from attending a conference in California I am rearing to GET STARTED! 




