---
layout: post
title: "Week 3 - Git practice and Jim Hall"
---

##### Git refresher and activity

This week we covered the basics of Git through an activity during class. Before this activity, I considered myself an intermediate at Git and I think this activity was definitely something I needed to refresh my memory and actualy learn a couple of things I hadn't done before. Specifically, I think the fork and upstream activities were the most challenging and were relatively new for me. 

<!--more-->

###### Finally figuring out non-conflict merging

One of the biggest questions I had was about dealing with bigger code bases where there are many people working on different parts of the code at the same time. For example, if there are 20 files in a repository and 7 people are working on it. One possible scenario is - let's say that all 7 people are working on completely seperate files and are being good about not editing anything else. How do you pull from the master branch and not lose all the work that is saved on your local machine?

Apparently, GitHub is smart enough to know the difference between the work you did on the local repository and the different changes that were made on the master branch. The steps that you should take are - add changes -> commit changes with meaningful message -> pull -> push. 

Although this is pretty simple and I have myself successfully done this in the past, but I never really know why and how this works and never seemed to grasp the concept. 

This was actually the first time it was absolutely clear for me and honestly, made me feel much better about all the trauma I have gone through in the past!


###### Adding another remote and using Upstream 

In the above scenario described above there is actually another layer. To be able to manage the version of the main codebase that you forked and to make changes on that and track any changes made to the main codebase, you have to add another remote and use upstream. 

This was something I have never used and just realized that it is actually incredibly useful, specially in the context on open source projects. For actual open source projects there are thousands of people using them and hundreds of people contributing to them. I think it is going to come in very handy with the main project we decide to work on for the rest of the semester. 


##### Discussion with Jim Hall

[Here is the link for Jim's Bio](https://hallmentum.com/about/jimhall/). We started off with how Jim got started with his career in CS - teaching himself how to get computers to do what he wanted them to do. It was interesting how he had gotten exposure to pretty much *ALL* the operating systems during that time, which I think really contributed to his comfort level around computer programming. I have only gotten exposure to the MacOS and I see how that can be limiting to my versatality around computer programming. 

Additionally, a lot of his earlier computrs came with little to no functionality. So he almost *HAD* to learn how to code to work on a computer. I also think that with the rapid development of OS systems and how entire computers were becoming obselete contributed to him learning how to adapt very quickly to new upcoming technology. Comparing that to myself, computers came with so much functionality already built in and I didn't have to change computers, just had to hit the update button on the screen! I can now see how this difference actually matters on my savvy around computers even though I grew up with better technology!

###### How has open source changed?

I absolutely loved the fact that even though open source programming started as a way to make different versions of closed projects, it has really become a place where innovation happens. It is really developed to be able to harness the collective creativity of "the people." Speaking of which, I thought that the contributions would be very centered around the so-called "superpower nations," where levels of education, income per capita, access to technology is high. It was really surprising for me tolearn that this concept has always been global - really, really put a smile on my face :)


We talked about so many different topics in an hour, but these were my favorite moments of our conversation with Jim Hall.

