---
layout: post
title: "Week 8 - Open Source for Profit"
---

##### Is Open Source all about passion?
Spoiler alert, it is not. It was actually surprising to see [Tom Callaway](https://www.linkedin.com/in/spotfoss/) present the numbers he did. All of the prevelant industries (tech, healthcare, marketing, finance, retail, eCommerce) have some element of open source in their work!
<!--more-->


Up until now, some of the arguments for private, for-profit companies seemed to be obvious but a little weak - access to latest innovations, higher quality of software, lower costs to ownership. There is a lot of merit in these advantages, but there seemed something missing. There was one topic we spoke about that really drove the idea home for me - role of vendors. A lot of companies outsource their technical work to vendors, but overdependancy on them is a risk they have had to take. A falling out with their vendor would mean that the company would have to start over from scratch with another one or have to do it in-house. 

Making the project open-source, while having the vendor develop the project, safeguards the company's position and access they have not built themselves but are paying for. Even if there is a falling out with the vendor, you can still pick up from the last open version of the software and keep things afloat while looking a new vendor or building an in-house team. This is a such a huge advantage of open source that I never thought of before - making a strong case for it in the private, for-profit space. 


##### Did someone say free labor?
Making your project open source or participating in one means that you will be benefiting from people that are not employed by your company and not being compensated for their work leading to your profits. Does this mean that you essentially have people working for you for free? No, says Tom. Nothing comes free in this world, and this problem doesn't seem to have a straightforward answer as you cannot jsut throw money at the problem. 

A big company like AWS needs to be careful when it comes to things like this to continue to have a favorable reputation in the open source world. Without contributing to community, they will not be able to hold their place much longer. 


##### Tom, I am not convinced
Towards the end of the guest talk, the conversation shifted to AWS participating in projects that are run by a single company and their whole business model depends on it. Because of the scale that AWS operates on, they can almost always do whatever a small company is doing for cheaper. So when they take interest in a project like that and release the same offering as the small company, they can completely elbow them out of business. Tom answered to this concern by saying that they try and keep the company on as partners and not completely bypass them - but it wasn't a convincing answer for me. I wish we had time for an example, but being aware of that problem left me with a bitter taste for a big company's ability to obliterate a smaller company out of business, because of open source! 

Additionally, with Amazon's history (in their eCommerce platform) of providing a platform for small business to sell their products and then copying the high performing ones and undercutting them. I have SOOOO many questions about how AWS is handling similar scenarios in open source. Monopolization of technology in the open source world is the last thing anyone wants. 





