---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Conducting yourself in Open Source
---

##### What is the Code of Conduct?

The code of conduct is the guidance document for the people that choose become members of the community. How should members behave when interacting with each other in this project environment. Some projects might be more explicit than others, but in general people are required to be courteous to each other.

<!--more-->

##### The Contributor Covenant and its children

[The Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/) was written as a boiler plate document written to foster a healthy and safe open source community in the world. It was written in a way to establish common, shared values for projects to adopt, while leaving some space for each project to adapt the Covenant to its unique community and values. It cannot solely prevent toxicity and conflict in a project's community, and a project's leadership is finally responsible for that. 

###### 2 Different adaptations of the Contriutor Covenant
* The Go Project - [Here is the link to their Code of Conduct](https://go.dev/conduct). They used the Contributor Covenant as a boiler plate and add much more detail to it. There are a lot of words like 'constructive,' 'responsible,' 'respectful,' etc. that are open to interpretation but they have provided much more detail about them to avoid any confusion! It also encourages members to resolve conflicts among themselves before bringing it to their attention. They also extended the scope of the document to cover even conversations about the project.
  * I think that they have done a great job but extending the original document and adapting it to their needs and uses. To make their community even safer and more welcoming. 
* Eclipse - [Here is the link to their Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). Their Code of Conduct is almost identical to the Contributor Covenant. Even though it is a good standard to base it off of, I think that it is only effective if you modify it to address your community. With no changes to the document it doesn't make it a bad thing, but it could have been much better!


###### How is Sugar Labs different?
[Here is the link for Sugar Lab's code of conduct.](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) Comparing this code of conduct with the Go Project, you see some similarities *and* differences. There is a lot of emphasis on priciples (like responsibility, collaborative and conflict resolution) for Sugar Lab, like Gopher. There are specifications on these principles and not much is left to interpretation. Another thing that I like about it is that there is a translated version in Spanish. It gives a signal that they are trying to be more inclusive!
One difference that I see that Sugar Lab's code of conduct does not talk about things like scope of the document and the role of the organisation for member interactions. I believe that these are important pieces that should be present in the Code of Conduct document. 


###### Web Extentions Example
This may sound like an example where I did not put in any effort. But after doing the add-ons exercise, I am a fan of this open source project! I think that CS can be very intimidating for people who don't code or are trying to learn something they don't have experience with. This project really cares about teaching something cool to people about building extension on their browsers by providing many examples! [Here is a link to their Code Of Conduct.](https://github.com/mdn/webextensions-examples/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) It is a link to the Mozilla Community Participation Guidelines. I see a lot of similarities in this document compared to Gopher and Sugar Lab. They talk about certain qualities that their members should exhibit. However, it also talks explicitly about behaviors that are COMPLETELY intolerable. I think that takes a furhter step into being as literal as possible, and leaving very little to interpretation - which is a good thing. 
As opposed to Sugar Labs, they also have a process of reporting listed and talks about what the consequences look like for violators. I actually really like this document and think that it is very comprehensive. 



