---
layout: post
title: "Week 7 - Emotional or emotionless?"
---

##### How should you feel about your project

Some our discussions this week really brought about some conflicting feelings. On one hand, we discussed how it is really important for you to have passion towards the project you're working on. 
<!--more-->


This was completely clear when Christopher Snider was talking about Tidepool - the fact that most of their staff are dealing with diabetes themselves, really keeps them motivated to keep working and strive for an excellent open source project. It might be the case that you are not getting as heavily monetarily compensated in an open source team, as you would in a corporate job - all the more reason to have strong passion towards what you're building! 

On the other hand, we also discussed how it is important to keep listening to your users and other people working on the project - open source community. We can't always be right about everything and can't have the perfect vision for the product in our head. It might be perfect for you, but if none of your users are enjoying the experience then it doesn't make any sense to keep going in the direction that you are. Through my experience in entrepreneurship, I have learned about the concept of "getting out of the building," which basically means that you can't just sit inside a building and build a product/platform, you need to figuratively "get out of the building" and talk to your customers/users and learn more about them and how they want to use the product!


As you can probably tell, these are somewhat conflicting feelings. How can I deeply care about my product but also be willing to change my vision when the situation calls for it? I guess that there is a soft balance that you need to strike, but that is easier said than done :) 


