---
layout: post
title: "Week 12 - Progress with Oppia"
---

##### Beginning non-coding contributions
As per my previous post, I spoke with Sean Lip about how I can contribute to Oppia and I am finally in a place where I have started to work on a lesson plan. I attended a group meeting this past Tuesday evening with other contributors and Sean. The meeting was so much more organized than I was expecting. We kept meeting minutes and started the meeting with a basic outline of an agenda. The people who had been working on the project since before provided updates on the tasks they had set last week, and then we moved on to discuss what we were going to work on for the next 7 days. 
<!--more-->

Even though it was a little bit of a surprise, it made sense that they had to be this organized because they're probably dealing with a lot of churn rate with their volunteers and need to maintain good documentation of meetings so that it is easy to onboard new people. Even though it was my first meeting, I was quickly able to follow what was going on and participated in the discussions. 

The accountability set among this group was very motivating and inspiring. Everyone is encouraged to do as much as their schedule allows them to, but then it is a commitment you have with the rest of the group and have to do your best to live up to it. 


##### Creating a story outline
Because we trying to teach basic content to little children, who may not have English as their first language, we need to explain content based off of a story that is very easy to follow and understand. I worked on a story line to explain the basic concepts of data - what it is and how it is used. As creative and interesting this sounded to me, it was also very difficult to do. Thankfully I had feedback on an older version of a story line that helped me understand what kind of material they are looking for. 