---
layout: post
title: "Week 9 - Getting Started"
---

##### What should we do?
This week we got started with the group work for the rest of the semester. During our individual project evaluations I chose Oppia to be my top choice for the open source project I'd like to work on becuase of a few reasons - the cause was something I careful and have devoted a lot of my time to, it was a very active community, there were a lot of open issues we could work and a lot of non-developer work to do.
<!--more-->

One thing I definitely forgot to give enough importance to was installing and running the developer platform for Oppia. There are very detailed instructions and I didn't think twice that I could have trouble following them! I have a very old Macbook that is running on a relatively old OS, which makes it difficult to download new applications as it is no longer compatible with newer versions of the softwares needed to run Oppia. While I realize I need a new laptop, I cannot afford to get one right now. So, this put me and my group in a complicated situation - do we change the project we are working on or do we modify the way we are working to be able to still work on Oppia?


##### What's next?
While we are still very excited to work on Oppia, there are a few things we need to work on. Is there a way to work on Oppia and make develop contributions? Is there a way to work with my team and make contributions? I filled out a form that the Oppia community has for various contribution opportunities outside of software development - which seem very, very interesting. I believe that with non-developer contributions, collaborating with my teammates on software issues and communicating all that we are doing throught the wiki, we can make this a successful team effort to work on Oppia. 


