---
layout: post
title: "Week 14 - Presentations and bowing out"
---

##### Preparing for our final presentation
We are one of the many groups working on Oppia as their open source project for this class, and because we are going on the last day we have the extra pressure and are thinking about how we can stand out and present the project and our learnings in a different way. 
<!--more-->



One of the things that I am very excited to talk about is one of the biggest things I have taken away from the entire class - the way in which open source exists in today's world. While there are many fully volunteer projects that are thriving, I personally believe that if there isn't a structured way to compensate at least the core team of the project, it is bound to be inefficient and riddled with problems that make it difficult to do as much as good as it can do in this world. Therefore, it totally benefits for a private company (AWS) or a non-profit (Tidepool) to have their codebase open source, but it is going to be very difficult to do this completely off of people's extra time and goodwill. 


##### Wrapping things up with the Math Lesson Planning Team
This week I attended the Math lesson planning team meeting for, possibly, the last time. Based on Professor Klukowska's recommendations, I was very honest and upfront about being continually involved with Oppia and I informed that I would not be coming back. I also made sure that loose ends were tied up on my end and everything was good to move on to the next step, by someone else. I also made sure to let them know that I was available for any follow ups and/or questions. 


It has been such a pleasure contributing to Oppia and being a part of this class. I am very satisfied with the course and that I decided to wrap up my undergraduate career with this  elective. 



