---
layout: post
title: "Week 12 - Wind up!"
---

##### Writing a story line 
So the task that I was handed by Sean was to write the storyline for the "Introduction to Data" class, for the Math lesson planning team. For this class, I was supposed to cover topics like pie chats, bar graphs, histograms, mean, median, min-max, etc. Th beginning of the story was given to me - "Rick's roof had broken down, and Gigi started a lemonade stand to raise money to fix the roof before the monsoon season started."
<!--more-->

Now, I am very comfortable with these topics and know them very well. With the beginning of a story already given to me, I didn't think this was going to be that hard - I WAS WRONG. I had to write 6 chapters to cover 6 main skills, and basically something had to go wrong at the end of every chapter that the next chapter was going to fix, using the skill we were supposed to teach. I think the fact that these topics were so basic for me, made it all the more difficult to come up with the storyline. 

After a week's worth of work, I had the basic premise of the story down and managed to cover all the skills. 

##### Aligning the storyline to the next step in the workflow
I met with Sean to review my work and he brought up some interesting thoughts. Overall, he was happy with the script but he pointed out a few places where it was going to be very confusing to take this from a storyline, to a script (the next step in the workflow). 
That is when I realized that I had to be aware of where my work was going to go next - I needed to add examples to make it easy to follow, I had to eliminate potentially confusing elements, I had to think about the plausibility of making illustrations for the story I was writing (cannot write something that is too complicated to represent in a picture). 



##### All done! 
Finally, after getting feedback from Sean and from the rest of the Math lesson plan team, I was able to produce a version of the storyline that fit the critrea and wa ready to move on to the next step. For now, another thing I have to work on is commenting on someone else's work, because we are all peer reviewing our work before I hand it in for next steps. 

I have still not made up my mind about contributing to Oppia after this class is over. If I do, I would be working on converting my storyline in a script that can then be programmed on to the website and other creative/artistic contributors can start making illustrations. 

