---
layout: post
title: "Week 5 - Evaluating Font Awesome"
---

##### Project Evaluation for Font Awesome

When we were introduced to the topic of evaluating an open source project, I initially felt a little underqualified to do that because I barely have the technical knowledge to write and contribute to something like this. It felt like I was trying to fnd faults in something that I knew nothing about. 
<!--more-->


Slowly I began to realize we were actually trying to figure out whether the project we were looking at was actually easy to contribute to, how active was, how healthy was the community to be a part of, etc. etc. Getting into the group activity to discuss Font Awesome was actually interesting because there was a lot to talk about. 


##### Is this really an open source project?

The project is portrayed as being an open source project and while it may fulfill the criteria to be one, we couldn't help but think that it wasn't "open" as it was claiming to be. Font Awesome is a toolkit for icons to be used in websites and other projects by anyone. However, no one but the owners (just 2 people) could actually create icons and make them available in the toolkit, while most of the code was in another repository (not made available). All users could only "contribute" by requesting an icon, feature or reporting a bug - which means they can't really contribute to the main use for the project, i.e., to create a toolkit of icons. Additionally, they have a paid version of the project where there are more icons and features available to anybody who wants to pay $99 per year. 

All these points led us to believe that Font Awesome isn't really an open source project. 


##### Positive points

It isn't all bad. The 2 owners are very responsive and respectful to all owners. They and the rest of the community work together uncover bugs, think about new and exciting icons and features to add to the project. There are multiple pull requests that are reviewed and responded to by the owners quickly. They are courteous to anyone who writes a pull request or an issue. They are using the GitHub's issue tracker to talk to each other efficiently, but there is no other communication channel. There is an email address for questions/concerns and a blog. 


##### Comments on videos

* [Food Computer:](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/farming-for-the-future/food-computer) This is a very interesting concept that I am already a little familiar with (I once spoke with the founder of [Grow Computer](https://www.growcomputer.io/)). I do think that this program being open source has a lot of benefits because agriculture is one of the oldest professions of the world. There is a lot of regional techniques that could be included into this project to make it more applicable for everyone around the world. A drawback is that you would need to set up a pretty complex and expensive physical structure to be able to test the code.  

* [Democratizing Knowledge in Higher Education:](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/live-talk-democratizing-knowledge) I really like the way this project started out of a major problem that professors felt because of restrictive, proprietary learning material and that open source software solved this problem. As a co-founder of an educational technology company, I am familiar with the problems that professors feel while designing their courses. This project not only helps professors teach the way the want to teach their subject (really enhancing their teaching). Additionally, it helps students reduce the cost of learning and also helps them personalize their experience with the learning material to match their style of learning - making the classroom more equitable. 



